# Project_13_Public_MSc_Thesis---Generative-AI-Image-Sharpening-and-Classification

This 2023 MSc thesis Python project has been implemented across Python Jupyter notebooks numbered 1-4, which are included in this repository. A PNG image is also contained, that explains how the inputs and outputs of each notebook are related.

The results for each CNN classifier model are presented in the two inlcuded results table images.

Project Abstract:

Image sharpening is useful to many applications, from security imaging to object detection within images, where obtaining a clearer image is desirable. In recent years, deep learning has been employed to sharpen images with excellent results through the use of a Generative Adversarial Network, often referred to as a GAN. This network consists of two deep neural networks called the generator and discriminator, that are trained against each other in an adversarial manner. Training continues until the generator can generate sharpened images that fool the discriminator into thinking they are genuine high resolution images. After training, this image sharpening GAN can be used to sharpen new and unseen images. For most applications, image sharpening GANs are trained on a subset of the same images they will be sharpening, however concern arises where the dataset is not large enough to sacrifice many images for GAN training. This research investigated the impact of applying GAN sharpened images to convolutional neural network (CNN) image classifiers, to investigate if this had any effect on the achievable classification accuracy. Additionally, transfer learning was also applied to CNN image classifiers: the process of training the image sharpening GAN on a dataset, then using that trained GAN to sharpen a new dataset, to determine whether this would result in higher image classification accuracies. Industry best practices were followed for the project methodology, to ensure the creation of high quality and reliable results. The image sharpening GAN created with this research was able to increase the classification accuracy of the initial dataset by 3.74% and the new dataset by 1.77% through the use of transfer learning. These are powerful results and should lay the foundations for further research in the field of deep learning, where transfer learning can be leveraged to increase the classification accuracy of neural network classifier algorithms.
